you know southeast asia when you look at
this you know uh market we were looking
at like a five
583 million people that live in this
region which including you know
singapore vietnam indonesia thailand and
so on and 400 million people are
connected to the internet
and and and you know to to your question
why asia because this is kind of like an
end tap of opportunity about where the
next you know we call it in google the
next billion users the next billion
users probably will not come from the us
and they definitely would come from
india and south east asia
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley in partnership with lomitek and
sponsored by homework ventures hippo
insurance opposed hillel at stanford
leap and birthright excel
hello and welcome to 20 minute leaders
welcome you valpasso regional partner
lead managing google's relationships
with the biggest media agencies across
asia
prior to his move to singapore he was
leading the gaming team in google israel
working with the leading gaming
companies in europe and united states to
develop their marketing strategy
including platika miniclip epic games
zynga and many more he is also the
founder of game on asia the leading
podcast in asia focusing on the mobile
gaming ecosystem in asia in his free
time he volunteers as a mentor and
google for startups southeast asia
accelerator
you valpasso welcome to 20 minute
leaders all the way from singapore
finally i have somebody calling in from
singapore how are you
i'm great i'm great it's great to to be
here and thank you for waking up so
early it's 6 30 for you right
for this call i'd wake up much earlier
i'm really excited to get to know you
better and and get to know your
expertise and gaming and in marketing
and and obviously you know the you were
leading
the gaming team in google israel you
were working with some incredible
companies uh working with developing
their marketing strategies in europe in
the us like with platika miniclip epic
games and you're also the founder of
game on asia a leading podcast in asia
focused on the mobile gaming ecosystem i
have no idea what the mobile ecosystem
for gaming is in asia so i'm excited to
to tackle into that and today your
regional partner lead managing google's
relationships with the biggest media
agencies across asia
way too many things to talk about in the
mere span of 20 minutes so i'd like to
dive straight in
when do you discover that you have a
passion for gaming how does that even
come about
so actually i think that from from a
very young age you know as we we all uh
discovered the the early pcs and um and
back then we we didn't have a lot of of
you know mobile games so then
i discovered initially you know all the
all the different quests and and so on
um and i think that for a long time i
was really passionate about building
games for for kids and for more like
educational uh things but as i studied
biomedical engineering it was really
hard for me to to find the entry for the
gaming ecosystem
but that's something that i managed to
do after doing my mba back in israel and
actually um been accepted to to google
where i i started as an industry manager
and then um we're leaving the the mobile
gaming team
and and when we say leading the mobile
gaming team on google uh you know many
people ask me if it's like if google
developed games um
so i think that we we tried in the past
that was not so successful uh but most
of the work that we're doing uh in
israel and across the across the world
is more about helping with the marketing
uh strategy and user acquisition for big
gaming companies like platika like
playroom and and and so on so this is
where i discovered kind of like behind
the scenes of of the gaming ecosystem
and the transition then to asia and to
focus on the asian ecosystem
how did that come about
so after five years in in google in
israel uh we were looking more as an
adventure for for the family but also a
place that you know we can expand um you
know my my skills and and asia looked
like
an amazing opportunity and you know
everything is before coffee that's you
know the whole world uh change um but
then we moved with you know my wife and
two kids and actually we expanded now
with another kids um and and singapore
it's it's an amazing amazing place to to
live in um i don't know if you've been
in uh have you been in singapore before
not not yet
i'm so excited
yeah so so singapore is very similar to
israel in in many ways um similar uh
like population
actually israel built the whole you know
army intelligence units and everything
in singapore
and it's super safe and i think that one
of the most exciting things that you can
travel you know and for israelis is like
you can travel in one hour to thailand
to bali
and you know so many places um but in
the same time you know southeast asia
when you look at this you know uh market
we're looking at like
a five
583 million people
that live in this region which including
you know singapore vietnam indonesia
thailand and so on and 400 million
people are connected to the internet and
and and you know to your question why
asia because this is kind of like an ant
opportunity about where
the next you know we call it in google
the next billion users the next billion
users probably will not come from the us
and they definitely would come from
india and south east asia um so i think
that for anyone that is interested in in
this market there is a very interesting
um you know research that we did
together with bain
about the opportunities in the market
what happened after kovid you know
thinking about like people that live in
a village in indonesia you know that
currently now are are stuck in their
house and cannot do anything uh
you know and and they they cannot travel
so their mobile phone and that's another
example of you know developing countries
that they skipped the desktop right they
immediately got their first mobile phone
which is a lot of the time smartphone
and the internet let's say in india it's
crazy they pay like you know less than
one dollar for
you know five gigabytes or 10 gigabytes
and unbelievable and then
and and that this is like a great
opportunity and and you see here a lot
of innovation a lot of startups are
coming here uh you started to see a few
unicorns but but coffee specifically you
know people learn on the mobile phone
people do like all kind of like ordering
and so on that maybe in the western
world it will seem obvious but here like
everything is around that
um
so that's why we are you know we were we
were like i was specifically very
excited about moving here and and i
think that to your question specifically
about gaming
it's also it's it's something that it's
hard to to understand
the the numbers of you know gamers in
asia of course you can think about china
you know as the numbers but
um you know the numbers that i just you
know we just also published a research
about that
it's 1.5 billion uh gamers in asia and
and that's not only only uh
only china
and if you look at the global revenue of
of uh of like global gaming revenue
almost 50 is coming from asia
really and that's something that's yeah
so that's that's
crazy yeah
unbelievable tell me a little bit more
about gaming
as a as a vertical you know it's
i i keep hearing the statistics that you
know the final tournaments of league of
legends and those sorts of games way
surpassed those of the nba finals and
this is obviously the next you know
esports industry but also i'm seeing a
whole you know new discussion about the
metaverse and the way that people are
interacting with games and and the new
generation of gamers that are so
different from the way that i conceive
it what what is happening to the gaming
industry worldwide and in asia that that
requires some deep analysis or is not so
trivial for the average person that when
i think of gaming i think of ic tower
and you know minecraft
yeah so you know i think that first of
all gaming as as everyone knows during
the last
i can say almost two years of kovid it
just like boomed you know we see that
cross you know globally um you see how
much
um marketing budgets are increasing
while other verticals are decreasing so
gaming people are are at home you know
they're looking for the social
interactions and that's something that
is so strong in asia people are looking
for this you know
opportunities to meet with other people
and through
competitive gaming and and the ability
to meet other players they are able to
to do it within the coveted space so i
think that what you discuss about like
uh esports tournaments what about
metaverse and it's more about ability
for you wherever you are to meet new
people and and to interact with them and
and i think that um
you know some of my colleagues in israel
said that you know what happening in
china now in terms of gaming it's kind
of like the future of a lot of the
gaming companies are looking at the west
in terms of let's say influencers um so
for example you know
one of the interviews that i i have i
have this podcast that i focus you know
on the on the gaming ecosystem in asia
that you mentioned and they have
influencers right influencers is like
the youtube influencers that they have
millions of people following them and so
on but what they did in china china they
took it to the next level so they figure
out what the audience like um what what
they kind of make them more engaged and
they created according to all the data
points they created like a virtual
influencer so it's not a real person
it's the person that they know that
their audience will be engaged with and
they just spend millions of dollars with
you know tv campaigns with you know um
digital campaigns just to attract these
users and and it's something that it's
hard for us to understand that this is
where you feel
where i feel old um but it's it's works
and and probably we will see that
probably in the west in in a few years
um so i think that you know it's it's
super exciting especially like you see
in india for example um they they play
you know candy crash or or fruit ninja
but on a competitive level right and
again it's competition it's social and
yeah and they actually bet money so i
can play with you on fruit ninja and
whoever pay whoever wins will get like
you know the 20 cents or five cents and
so on it's and it's like it's a unicorn
already it's called mobile premier
league um wow and and you see it
more and more and more and you know
countries like vietnam that they have
you know the other one that
created the the flappy birds like the
you know if you remember there was like
this
kind of birds that coming from a one
person you know developer in vietnam
that was a little bit shocked after his
success
um and then he just expanded and you see
a whole ecosystem of developers want to
be you know the flappy bird developer
unbelievable so as you can see i'm very
passionate about this i feel it's uh
it's it's super now it's super easy to
create a game but in the same time you
know when you look at like global
challenges
it's so hard to you know after you
finish developing the game you put it in
the app store or the play store to play
um
how do you discover that right there is
millions of games and and that's where
you need to have like a unique marketing
strategy um and you know how to attract
the users
right and so you know
still talking about about gaming what
are some you know consumer behavior
shifts beyond what you mentioned with
the influencers that that you're
observing from the east
that will make its way to the west and
and i'm i'm looking back at the sentence
to be said about you know and looking at
at some parts of asia is catalysts
for showing what what what if what the
future may hold
for western countries as well in terms
of consumer behavior gaming cultural
shifts
what what are we seeing in the world of
gaming that you know we can expect in
the next few years to slowly make its
way
so i think that what you see now that
more and more chinese companies are
becoming like the top in the top
letter boards uh across the world um so
even though in the past we thought you
know if it's like uh asian you know
characters that it will not work in in
the west it's actually working and it's
working really well um and actually
because they are able to thinking about
like you know they have gaming studios
in in in asia that just for one game
they have i don't know 600 700
developers and just for one game so and
a lot of the things that they are doing
you know in other verticals they know
how to do it in in gaming and they know
how to engage the users um i think that
the other thing is you know i just had
recently a call with the the person that
leads um
um the the gaming team in korea in
google and you know one of the things
that he mentioned it's all the thing
around webtoons
probably i don't know if you've heard
about that web
entune t-o-o-n no so that's kind of like
a comics that we know you know but yeah
what's happening that in korea it's huge
it's kind of like a
a comics it's an app that you read
comics on an app
and
you know in korea it's huge
but they manage not to stay in the
borders of korea it's actually going out
and like k-pop in korea and like korean
food they managed to do a lot of of this
like export and you will see that you
know they're becoming that they're going
to be like a netflix series and they're
going to take a lot of the context and
do games out of that
so i think that
the world you know the globalization of
the world is just making it easier for a
lot of the trends
to just you know be without borders and
and that's something to to just um see
and make sure that you know you follow
that because otherwise we just stay
behind that and and very quickly we feel
we feel that you know all the top
crossing games
in the west will be from from asia
right um so that just two examples from
you know korea and china
now focusing just a little bit about the
marketing side of it which which is you
know fascinating on its own you're
mentioning that sure you know today
the the barrier or the friction to
creating games is reduced dramatically
but the the biggest challenge that is
presented now is now that you have a
proliferation of games how do you
actually get yours to to be noticeable
what are some you know what what what
really impacts you know whether a game
let's say we're looking at 10 games that
are developed in extremely high quality
high content
you know have all the virality effects
that you'd expect what would be some
marketing indicators for whether one
would succeed whether they one would not
so i think that when you said virality
it's very hard now to get virality or
what health what used to be you know
something that people would expect uh
okay i'll just put that and i'll do a
few campaigns and people will just start
to talk about that virality also you
know almost none existed only only like
in rare cases that it happened
um i think that the other thing that in
the past you know
developers were asking for featuring in
the play store so you know when you get
to the play store you're right that's a
big game this is you know zynga launched
the game and so on
but i think that you know a lot of the
things that we are seeing now is um with
all the changes around privacy and
cookies and and you know um the operator
system 14.5 of of apple that you need to
have something uh unique uh but in the
same time when you say unique it can be
like an ap
um you know if you have like i don't
know spiderman you know as a character
in your game but that's something that
you know smaller developers it's really
hard for them because they don't have
the money um to actually invest in ip
but ip is definitely something that will
lower
uh the cost for acquisition of new
player and will help you to to get out
there a lot of the other thing is is to
partner with you know bigger gaming
companies and that's all the publishing
deals that you see that some company
will work with zynga would work with
other companies and then they will help
them you know uh
kind of like scale scale the game
because it's a lot of the time the money
that they uh recruit uh that they the
money that they raise it's it's it's the
focus is for user acquisition because
now you need to have like a few million
dollars in order for you to have enough
money to scale the game um you know uh
globally but but kind of like the basic
everything when you know an investor or
or anyone that is looking at at your
game they will look at the
the retention metrics so how many of the
users after they installed what we call
day one how many actually stayed in the
game so it's mean that your game is is
not just you know my maintenance a lot
of the people we will not open the game
after they install it some of the people
will open that in the day one and then
you also look at day seven and there is
benchmark in the industry so i think
that this is the first thing before you
do any marketing campaigns you need to
make sure that you know the the the
engagement level the content whatever
you are doing is is
is working well really a
similar idea as a product market fit for
for for any any other vertical right the
idea that you you've actually found a
fit for your product in the market and
that makes a lot of sense and if i i
also want to make sure that i have a
little bit of time to dig deep into you
know who you are as a person now before
gaming before all that stuff take me
back to your childhood what really
fascinates you as a kid
you know growing up what really sparks
your curiosity yeah so i think that's
one of the things that inspired me as a
kid is actually when i was
i i traveled to australia
to meet my my family
and actually stayed there and studied
for three months together with my
cousins
and and i think that was kind of like a
shift uh for me like you know how small
is israel and and how how different is
the world because i was studying in
international school i was able to meet
you know people from uh not just
australia from from different places
around the world and that's you know
coming back my english got much better
even just three months
but also the ability to understand how
global is the world so that's i think
that it's it's was kind of like a big
shift for me
very very cool and if you look today
at your work today within singapore
wherever it is and you know where you
gain your inspiration on a daily basis
where is that derived from
again can you repeat that
where do you derive today's inspiration
from so when you go about your day today
right now
what really gets you going in the day
today
yeah so i think that you know for me
it's uh definitely
the the kids you know that that's you
know and i think that specific coffee
just got this you know idea of
you know doesn't matter what you have
doesn't matter what you achieve you know
the the the moment that you have your
kids next to you they're healthy they
make you laugh they make you smile
and and you know the small happiness
exercise of you know the gratitude list
of doing like three every every day
writing three things that you are
most gratitude and thankful for i just
look at you know for the last six months
and you see the kids are just there in
everything and and i think that that's
kind of like uh
something that i wish that it will stay
for a long time but you need to have the
balance but definitely the other one
that motivates me
motivation
very very cool
and what are a few words that you would
use to describe yourself
um so
i think will be
super uh friendly uh open
um and uh
and funny
very very cool yuval thank you very very
much this was great i loved these last
20 minutes i learned a lot and it was
great getting to know you and i
appreciate your time thank you very very
much
thank you michaels thank you for hosting
me and again for working so so early of
course thank you
you